docs: use_viewport_data hook spec (#118)
deephaven/deephaven-plugins: plugins/ui/DESIGN.md

| `first_row`        | `RowIndex`                           | The row to start the viewport on. Must be specified if `last_row` is specified. `None` by default, which will return all rows. |
| `last_row`         | `RowIndex`                           | The row to end the viewport on. Must be specified if `first_row` is specified. `None` by default, which will return all rows.  |
| `columns`          | `ColumnName |\ Sequence[ColumnName]` | The column or columns to create the viewport on. `None` by default, which will return all columns.                             |
| `sentinel`         | `Sentinel`                           | A sentinel value to return if the viewport is still loading. Default `None`.                                                   |

##### use_column_data

Capture the data in a specific column. If the column is still loading, a sentinel value will be returned.
This returns the data as a list of values.

###### Syntax

```py
use_column_data(
    table: Table,
    column: ColumnName,
    first_row: RowIndex = None,
    last_row: RowIndex = None,
    sentinel: Sentinel = None

> ) -> list[Any] | Sentinel:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
) -> ColumnData | Sentinel:
```

| `table`           | `Table`         | The table to create a viewport on.                                                                                             |
| `column`          | `ColumnName`    | The column to create the viewport on.                                                                                          |
| `first_row`       | `RowIndex`      | The row to start the viewport on. Must be specified if `last_row` is specified. `None` by default, which will return all rows. |
| `last_row`        | `RowIndex`      | The row to end the viewport on. Must be specified if `first_row` is specified.  `None` by default, which will return all rows. |
| `sentinel`        | `Sentinel`      | A sentinel value to return if the column is still loading. Default `None`.                                                     |

##### use_row_data

Capture the data in a specific row. If the row is still loading, a sentinel value will be returned.

###### Syntax

```py
use_row_data(
    table: Table,
    row: RowIndex,
    columns: ColumnName | Sequence[ColumnName] = None,
    as_list: bool = False,
    sentinel: SentinelType = None

> ) -> list[Any] | RowData | Sentinel:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
) -> RowData | Sentinel:
```

Author: With this one, I use `list[Any]` as an option because of the `as_list` flag. I think, by default, `RowData` should be returned but it's possible you don't actually care about the column names, just the values, and just want a list.

Reviewer: Ah yea. I'd rather use overloaded functions (Python single dispatch?) or a different function name for this. As it is right now, using this method, you'd need to check the result each time to see if it's a `list[Any]` or a `RowData`, even though you should know what the return type is based on what you're calling.

| `do_replay`   | `bool`                                                 | Whether to replay the initial snapshot of the table, default is False.                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `replay_lock` | `LockType`                                             | The lock type used during replay, default is ‘shared’, can also be ‘exclusive’.                                                                                                                                                                           |

##### use_viewport_data

> Capture the data in a specific viewport. If there is no data in the viewport, a sentinel value will be returned.

Reviewer: "If there is no data in the viewport" - I don't think that's right, we just want to return a Sentinel while we're fetching the viewport. If all the values in the viewport are None or something, we should still be returning a `TableData` with `None` for the values.

Same wording needs to be fixed on the other methods.
```suggestion
Capture the data in a specific viewport. If the viewport is still loading, a sentinel value will be returned.
```

Only one of the following groups of parameters may be specified:
1. `first_row` and `last_row`
2. `slice_start_pct` and `slice_end_pct`
3. `head_rows` 
4. `head_pct`
5. `tail_rows` 
6. `tail_pct`

> If none of the above are specified, all rows will be returned.

Reviewer: I don't really like having to split up the different ways to get a viewport as different groups of parameters you can pass in... I think it'd be better if we just had different hooks if it's going to take a different set of parameters, e.g.
```py
use_table_data(table: Table, first_row: Optional[int] = None, last_row: Optional[int] = None, columns: Optional[ColumnName | Sequence[ColumnName]] = None) -> ViewportData | Sentinel
use_table_head(table, Table, row_count: int, columns: Optional[ColumnName | Sequence[ColumnName]] = None) -> ViewportData | Sentinel
# etc...
```
I'm willing to get outvoted on this though if @dsmmcken thinks the current spec is better.

Reviewer 2: It's an interesting idea, but I think directly writing the query on the table you pass is more than acceptable.

I wouldn't add the additional complication.

###### Syntax

```py
use_viewport_data(
    table: Table,
    first_row: int = None,
    last_row: int = None,
    slice_start_pct: float = None,
    slice_end_pct: float = None,
    head_rows: int = None,
    head_pct: float = None,
    tail_rows: int = None,
    tail_pct: float = None,

>     columns: str | Sequence[str] = None,

Reviewer: Use `ColumnName` instead of `str`. It's defined in the glossary and it just points to str, but it makes it clearer what kind of str we want here.

| `do_replay`   | `bool`                                                 | Whether to replay the initial snapshot of the table, default is False.                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `replay_lock` | `LockType`                                             | The lock type used during replay, default is ‘shared’, can also be ‘exclusive’.                                                                                                                                                                           |

##### use_table_data

Capture the data in a table. If the table is still loading, a sentinel value will be returned.
Data should already be filtered to the desired rows and columns before passing to this hook as

> it is best to filter before data is retrieved.

Reviewer: We should link to the Table Operations available on a table here: https://deephaven.io/core/docs/reference/table-operations/filter/head/
Or perhaps here: https://deephaven.io/core/docs/how-to-guides/use-select-view-update/

So we guide them to what operations we want them to use. Filter/head/tail/sorting for rows, select/view for columns.

RowIndex = int | None
SearchMode = Literal["SHOW", "HIDE", "DEFAULT"]
SelectionMode = Literal["CELL", "ROW", "COLUMN"]
Sentinel = Any
SortDirection = Literal["ASC", "DESC"]

> TableData = dict[ColumnName, RowData]

Reviewer: This isn't the right type - a dictionary from `ColumnName` to `RowData` doesn't make sense, `RowData` is a dict with the `ColumnName` as the key.
The above `RowData` definition should be:
```py
RowData = dict[ColumnName, Any]
```
But then this `TableData` would just need to be `list[RowData]` I believe. We don't need to provide the offset as the hook will only return the data once retrieved, so they've already got the offset (if they specified it)... Though if you get into the `slice` type of hooks, then it might make sense to have the explicit offset/range returned... I just wouldn't worry about the slice methods right now.

Author: I think what I was going for a more natural table format but messed it up. I think it should be `TableData = dict[ColumnName, ColumnData]` where `ColumnData = list[any]`. The only practical differences are you access column then row rather than row then column, which makes sense given that our system is column based, and we're only storing the column names once in that case.
